The Comprehensive Course for the Tournament Player 
   This course has been designed by one of the best and most successful trainers in the country, Mr. Srikrishna udupa exclusively for Nalanda Chess Academy. The course will deliver all the structured material / knowledge / support required for the talented youngsters to succeed in the tournament scene and set them on course to mastery of the game at a very high level.  
     Based on the training methods which have produced some of the top Indian talents like IM Stany G A, Sri Ram sarja, yashas D, Srusti j shetty,kishan gangolli,  Nisha N Patkar, Shrishan, Anil S Shetty, Spoorthi pai , kedar Umesh vaje, Akshay halagannavar, Aditya B kalyani, Akshatha R  etc 
Module 1 
Children taking up the game for the first time will be taken for this course. The course includes:
 1. History and concept of chess game 
2. Introduction to the chess board 
3. File, Rank, Diagonal, Name of Squares 
4. Name of the pieces
5. Arrangements of board & pieces 
6. Movement of pieces 
7. Comparitive value of pieces 
8. Captures
9. Notations
10. Castling 
11. En-Passant rule 
12. Pawn promotion
13. Check & Check mate 
14. Draw game 
15.Stale mate
16. Reputation of position  
17. 50 Move rule 
18. Reading and recording the game 
19. General principles & Rules of chess game
20. Playing practice  
21. Mate in one move 
22. Mate in two moves
23. Introduction to play with a chess Timer/clock

 A student will be solving around 200 basic positions at this level.  Theory /Practice Ratio - 50:50
Objective: A child successfully completing this module will be able to play a game of chess independently against an opponent according to FIDE laws of chess and will be eligible for promotion to the next level

Module 2 - Advanced Beginners 
 Children successfully completing the foundation course or with a previous knowledge of the basics of the game will be eligible to take this module. It will include:
1. Introduction to FIDE tournament rules
2. General principle of opening 
3.General principle of endings
4. Checkmating with Queen, Rook, Two Bishops, Bishop and Knight
5.Tactice in middle game 
6.Direct hit , hit with check, pin,knight fork, double attack, Discover attack, mill, x-ray attack, skewer,
7.Remove the guard 
8.Deflection
9. Decoying
10. Blocking
11. Back Rank
12. In between moves
13. Pawn Rolling
14. Pawn promotion
15. Simultaneous game playing practice 
16. Blind fold practice
17. Introduction to combinations 
18. Basics of opening development
19. Basics of ending (Theory of opposition)
20. Tips for practical play 

A student will be solving around 500 positions at this level.
Theory /Practice Ratio - 40:60
Objective: This course is aimed to prepare a beginner for participation in competitive chess events. Students completing this course are ready to actively participate in age category chess tournaments and move to the next level.
